[_two rules_]/ / #A #FIFTH-MONARCHY-MAN/ / / I²S one, that is not
contented to be a Privy-/ Counſellor of the Kingdom of Heave, but/ would
fain be a Miniſter of State of this World,/ and tranſlate the Kingdom of
Heaven to the/ Kingdom of Earth. His Deſign is to make/ _Chriſt_ King,
as his Forefathers the _Jew_ did,/ only to abuſe and crucify him, that
he might/ ſhare his Lands and Goods, as he did his Vice-/ gerents here.
He dreams of a Fool's Paradiſe/ without a Serpent in it, a golden Age
all of/ Saints, and no Hypocrites, all _holy-Court_ Princes,/ and no
Subjects but the Wicked; a Govern-/ ment of _Perkin Warbec_ and _Lambert
Simnel_/ Saints, where every Man, that had a Mind to it,/ might make
himſelf a Price, and claim a/ Title to the Crown. He fancies a
_fifth-Mo-/ narchy_ as the Quinteſſence of all Governments,/ abſtracted
from all Matter, and conſiſting/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

wholly of Revelations, Viſions, and Myſteries./ _John of Leyden_ was the
firſt Found of it, and/ though he miſcarried, like _Romulus_ in a Tem-/
peſt, his Poſterity have Revelations every full/ Moon, that there may be
a TIme to ſet up his/ Title again, and with better Succeſs; though/ his
Brethren, that have attempted to ſince, had/ no ſooner quartered his
Coat with their own,/ but their whole outward Men were ſet on the/ Gates
of the City ; where a Head and four/ Quarters ſtand as Types and Figures
of the/ _fifth-Monarchy._ They have been contriving (ſince/ Experiments,
that coſt Necks are too chargea-/ ble) to try it in little, and have
depoſed King/ _Oberon,_ to erect their Monarchy in _Fairy-Land,_/ as
being the moſt proper and natural Region in/ the whole World for their
Government, and if/ it ſucceed there to proceed further. The _De-/
vil's_ Proſpect of all the Kingdoms of the Earth,/ and the Glory of
them, has ſo dazzled their Eyes,/ that they would venture their Necks to
take/ him at his Word, and give him his Price./ Nothing comes ſo near
the Kingdom of Dark-/ neſs as the _fifth-Monarchy,_ that is no where/ to
be found, but in dark Propheſies, obſcure My-/ thologies, and myſstical
Riddles, like the Vi-/ ſions _Aeneas_ ſaw in Hell of the _Roman_
Empire,/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Next this is the moſt reſembles _Mahomet's_ Coming/ to the _Turks,_ and
King _Arthur's_ Reign over the/ Britons in _Merlin_'s Propheſies ; ſo
near of Kin/ are all fantaſtic Illuſions, that you may diſcern/ the ſame
Lineaments in them all. The poor/ Wicked are like to have a very ill
time under/ them, for they are reſolved upon arbitrary Go-/ vernment,
according to their ancient and fun-/ damental Revelations, and to have
no Subjects/ but Slaves, who between them and the _Devil_/ are like to
ſuffer Perſecution enough to make/ them as able Saints, as their Lords
and Maſ-/ ters. He gather Churches on the Sunday, as/ the _Jew_ did
Sitkcs on their Sabbath, to ſet the/ State on Fire. He humms and hahs
high Trea-/ ſon, and calls upon it, as Gameſters do on the/ Caſt they
would throw. He groans Sedition,/ and, like the _Phariſee,_ rails, when
he gives/ Thanks. He interprets Propheſies, as _Whitting-/ ton_ did the
Bells, to ſpeak to him, and governs/ himſelf accordingly./

------------------------------------------------------------------------
