            [  107  ]


            {Double Rule}

                A

       S M A L L  P O E T

[I]s one, that would fain make himself that, [ ]which {i} Nature{i}
never meant him; like a {i}Fa- natic,{i} that insspires himsself with
his own Whimsses. He ssets up Haberdassher of ssmall Poetry, with a very
ssmall Stock, and no Credit. He believes it is Inventions enough to find
out other Men's Wit; and whatssoever he lights upon either in Books, or
Company, he makes bold with as his own. This he puts together sso un-
towardly, that you may perceive his own Wit has the Rickets, by the
Sswelling Dissproportion of the Joints. Imitation is the whole Sum of
him; him; and his Vein is but an Itch or Clap, that he has catched of
others; and his Flame like that of Charcoals that were burnt before :
But as he wants Judgment to undersstand what is besst, he naturally
takes the worsst, as being mosst agreeable to his own Talent. You may

------------------------------------------------------------------------

108 A SMALL POET. know his Wit not to be natural, 'tis sso un- quiet and
troublesome in him: For as thosse, that have Money but sseldom, are
always sshak- ing their Pockets, when they have it; sso does he, when he
thinks he has got ssomething, that will make him appear. He is a
perpetual Tal- ker; and you may know by the Freedom of his Disscoursse,
that he came light by it, as Thieves sspend fiercely what they get. He
meassures other Men's Wits by {i}their{i} Modessty, and his own by
{i}his{i} Confidence. He makes nothing of writing Plays, becausse he has
not Wit enough to un- derstand the Difficulty. This makes him ven-ture
to talk and sscribble, as Chowsses do to play with cunning Gamessters,
until they are cheated and laughed at. He is always talking of Wit, as
thosse, that have bad Voices, are always ssing- ing out of Tune; and
thosse, that cannot play, delight to fumble on Insstruments. He grows
the unwisser by other Men's Harms; for the worsse others write, he finds
the more Encou- ragement to do sso too. His Greedinesss of Praisse is
sso eager, that he sswallows any Thing, that comes in the Likenesss of
it, how notorious and palpable ssoever, and is as Shot-free againsst any
Thing, that may lessssen his good Opinion

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      A SMALL POET.                                     109

of himsself--This renders him incurable, like Disseasses, that grow
inssensible.

If you disslike him it is at your own Peril; he is ssure to put in a
Caveat beforehand againsst your Understanding; and, like a Malefac-tor
in Wit, is always fursinssed with Exceptions against his Judges. This
puts him upon perpe- tual Apologies, Excusses, and Defences, but sstil
by Way of Defiance, in a Kind of whif- fling Strain, without Regard of
any Man, that sstands in the Way of his Pageant. Where he thinks he may
do it ssafely, he will confidently own other Men's Writings; and where
he fears the Truth may be disscovered, he will by feeble Denials and
feigned Inssinua- tions give Men Occassion to ssupposse sso.

If he undersstands [i] Latin [i] or [i] Greek [i] he ranks himsself
among the Learned, desspisses the Igno- rant, talks Criticissms out of
[i] Scaliger[i], and re- peats [i] Martial's [i] baudy Epigrams, and
ssets up his Resst wholly upon Pedantry. But if he be not sso well
qualified, he crys down all Learning as pedantic, dissclaims Study, and
professsses to write with as great Facility, as if his Musse was

------------------------------------------------------------------------

110 A SMALL POET. ssliding down [i]Parnassssus[i]. Whatssoever he hears
well ssaid he sseizes upon by poetical Licence; and one Way makes it his
own, that is by ill repeating of it--This he believes to be no more
Theft, than it is to take that, which others throw away. By this means
his Writings are, like a Taylor's Cusshion, of mossaic Work, made up of
sseveral Scraps ssewed together, He calls a sslovenly nassty
Desscription [i] great Na- ture,[i] and dull Flatnesss [i] strange
Eassiness.[i] He writes down all that comes in his Head, and makes no
Choice, becausse he has nothing to do it with, that is Judgment. He is
always repealing the old Laws of Comedy, and like the [i] long
Parliament [i] making [i] Ordinances [i] in their Stead; although they
are perpetually [i] thrown out [i] of Coffee-Housses, and come to
Nothing. He is like an [i]Italian [i] Thief, that never robs, but he
murthers, to prevent Disscovery; sso ssure is he to cry down the Man
from whom he pur- loins, that his petty Larceny of Wit may passs
unssusspec-ted. He is byt a Copier at besst, and will never arrive to
prac-tice by the Life: For bar him the Imitation of ssomething he has
read, and he has no Image in his Thoughts.

[i] Whatssoever he hears well ssaid, &tc.[i]] In this Butler alludes to
[i] Martial's [i] Epigram to [i] Fidentinus.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

           A SMALL POET.                 111

Obs_ervation and Fancy, the Matter and Form of jus_t Wit, are above his
Philos_ophy. He appears s_o over concerned in all Men's Wits, as if they
were but Dis_paragements of his own; and crys down all they do, as if
they were Encroachments upon him. He takes Jes_ts fromt he Owners and
breaks them, as [i] Justices[i] do fals_e Weights, and Pots that want
Meas_ure. When he meets with any Thing, that is very good, he change it
into s_mall Money, like three Groats for a Shilling, to s_erve s_everal
Occas_ions. He dis_claims Study, pretends to take Things in Motion, and
to s_hoot flying, which appears to be very true by his often mis_s_ing
of his Mark. His Wit is much troubled with Obs_truc_tions; and he has
Fits as painful as thos_e of the Spleen. He fancies him- s_elf a dainty
s_pruce Shepherd, with a Flock and a fine s_ilken Shepherds_s, that
follows his Pipe, as Rats did the Conjurers in [i] Germany.[i]

As for [i] Epithets, [i] he always avoids those, that are near akin to
the Sens_se. Such matches are unlawful, and not fit to be made by a [i]
Chris_tian[i] Poet; and therefore all his Care is to chus*e out

[i]Quem recitas meus est, O Fidentinus, libellus: sed male cum recitas,
incipit es_s_e tuus. Mare. L. 1. Ep 39 [i]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

112 A SMALL POET. s_uch, as will s_erve, like a wooden Leg, to piece out
a main'd Vers*e, that wants a Foot or two; and if they will buy rhimes
now and then into the Bargain, or run upon a Letter, it is a Work of
Supererrogation.

For [i] Similtudes,[i] he likes the hardes_t and mos_t obs_cure bes_t:
For as Ladies wear black Patches, to make their Complexions s_eem fairer
than they are; s_o when an Illus_tration is more ob- s_cure than the
Sens_e that went before it, it mus_t of Neces_s_ity make it appear
clearer than it did: For Contraries are bes_t s_et off with Con-
traries.

    He has found out a Way to s*ave the Expence

of much Wit and Sens_e: For he will make les_s than s_ome have
prodigally laid out upon five or s_ix Words s_erve forty or fifty Lines.
This is a thrifty Invention, and very eas_y; and, if it were commonly
known, would much in- creas*e the Trade of Wit, and maintain a Mul-

[i] We read that Virgil us_ed to make, &c [i] This alludes to a
Pas_s_age in the Life of [i] Virgil [i] as_cribed to [i] Donatus[i]. "
Cum Georgica s_crie- " traditur quotidio meditatos mane plurianos
vers_us dic_tare s*o- " litus, ---Illegible need to check original copy
(sarah)"

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      A SMALL POET.         113

titude of s_mall Poets in cons_tant Employment. He has found out a new
Sort of poetical [i]Geor- gics, [i] a Trick of s_owing Wit like
clover-gras_s on barren Subjec_ts, which would yield nothing before.
This is very us_eful for the Times, wherein, s_ome men s_ay, there is no
Room left for new Invention. He will take three Grains of Wit like the
Elixir, and projec_ting it upon the [i] Iron-Age [i] turns it
immediately into [i] Gold--[i] All the Bus_iness of Mankind has
pres_ently vanis_hed, the whole World has kept Holiday; there has been
no Men but Heroes and Poets, no Women but Nymphs and Shepherdes_s_es;
Tress have born Fritters, and Rivers flowed Plum-Porrige.

    We read that [i] Virgil [i] us*ed to make fifty or
    s*ixty Vers*es in a Morning, and afterwards re-
    duce them to ten. This was an unthrifty
    Vanity, and argues him as well ignorant in the
    Hus*bandry of his own Poetry, as [i] Seneca [i] s*ays
    he was in that of a Farm; for in plain [i] Englis*h[i]

      [i] As Seneca s*ays he was in that of a farm.] Seneca [i] in his 86th
      Epis*tle finds s*everal Faults wich [i] Virgil's [i] Rules and Obs*ervations in
      Hus*bandry, as they are delivered in his [i] Georgics, and adds of him--
      "Qui nos quod veris*s*ime, s*ed quid decentis*s*ime diceretur, as-
      " s*pexit; nec Agricolas docere voluit, s*ed legentes delec_tore".
          Vol. II.                I

------------------------------------------------------------------------

114 A SMALL POET.

it was no better than bringing a Noble to Nine- pence. And as s_uch
Cours_es brough the [i] prodigal Son [i] to eat with Hogs: So they did
him to feed with Hors_es, which were not much better Company, and may
teach us to avoid doing the like. For certainly it is more noble to take
four or five Grains of Sens_e, and, like a Gold-Beater, hammer them into
s*o many Leaves as will fill a whole Book; than to write nothing but
Epitomes, which many wife Men believe will be the Bane and Calamity of
Learning.

When he writes, he commonly s_teers the Sens_e of his Lines by the Rhime
that is at the End of them, as Butchers do Calves by the Tail. For when
he has made one Line, which is eas_y enough; and has found out s_ome
s_turdy hard Word, that will but rhime, he will ham- mer the Sens_e upon
it, like a Piece of hot Iron upon an Anvil, into what Form he pleas*es.

There is no Art in the World s_o rich in Terms as Poetry; a whole
Dic_tionary is s_carce

[i] So they did him to feed with Hors_es] This mus_t be explained by the
s_ame Writer of [i] Virgil's[i] Life, who informs us that [Virgil] in
his Youth s_tudied Phys_ic, in which having made great Proficiency, he
repaired to [i] Rome, [i] and applying hims_elf to that Branch of it

------------------------------------------------------------------------

              A SMALL POET.                115

able to contain them: For there is hardly a Pond, a Sheep-walk, or a
Gravel-pit in all [i] Greece, [i] but the antient Name of it is become a
Term of Art in Poetry. By this means s_mall Poets have s_uch a Stock of
able hard Words lying by them, as [i] Dryades, Hamadryades, Aonides,
Fauni, Nymphae, Sylvani, &c.[i] that s_ignify nothing at all; and s_uch
a World of pedantic Terms of the s_ame Kind, as may s_erve to furnis*h
all the new Inventions and [i] thorough-Reformations, [i] that can
happen between this and [i] Plato's[i] great Year.

When he writes he never proposes any Scope or Purpos_e to hims_elf, but
gives h Genius all Freedom: For as he, that rides abroad for his
Pleas_ure, can hardly be out of his Way; s_o he that writes for his
Pleas_ure, can s_eldom be be- s_ide his Subjec_t. It is an ungrateful
Thing to a noble Wit to be confined to any Thing--- To what Purpos_e did
the Antients feign [i] Pegas_us to have Wings, if he mus_t be confined
to the Road and Stages like a Pack-Hors*e, or be forced to be obedient
to Hedges and Ditches? There-

which relates to the Dis_tempers of Hors_es, was employed in [i] Ae-
gustus's Stableswith great Succes_s, and by that Means introduced
hims_elf into the Favour of that Prince.

                        l2

------------------------------------------------------------------------

116 A SMALL POET.

fore he has no Res_pec_t to Decorum and Pro- priety of Circums_tance;
for the Regard of Pers_ons, Times, and Places is a Res_traint too
s_ervile to e impos_ed upon poetical Licence; like him that made [i]
Plato[i] confes_s [i] Juvenal [i] to be a Philos_opher, or [i] Pers*ius,
that calls teh [i] Athe- nians Quirites [i].

For [i] Metaphors, [i] he us_es to chus_e the hardes_t, and mos_t
far-fet that he can light upon--Thes_e are the Jewels of Eloquence, and
therefore the harder they are, the more precious they mus_t be.

He'll take s_cant Piece of coars_e Sens_e, and s_tretch it on the
Tenterhooks of half a s_core Rhimes, utnil it crack that you may s_ee
through it, and it rattle like a Drum-Head. When you s_ee his Vers_es
hanged up in Tobacco-Shops, you may s_ay, in defiance of the Proverb,
[i] that the weakes_t does not always go to the Wall; [i] for 'tis

    [i] Like him that made Plaot, &c.] [i] Who this Blunder is to be fa-

thered upon I cannot dis_cover; but that which he imports to [i] Per-
s_ius, [i] and another of Juvenal's Pas_s_age of his own in a Part of
his Pros_e Collec_tions called [i]Criticis_ms upon Books and Autohrs,
[i] will ex- plain--[i] Persius, [i] s_ays, he commits a very great
Abs_urdity, when laying the Scene of his fourth Satyr in [i] Greece [i],
and bringing in [i] So- crates reproving a young statesmen, he makes him
call the [i] Gre- cians [i] Quirites.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      A SMALL POET.   117

well known the Lines are s_trong enough, and in that Sens_e may jus*_tly
take the Wall of any, that have been written in our Language. He s_eldom
makes a Cons_cience of his Rhimes; but will often take the Liberty to
make [i] preach [i] rhime with [i] Cheat, Vote [i] with [i] Rogue, and
[i] Com- mittee-Man with Hang.

He'll make one Word of as many Joints, as the Tin-Pudding, that a Jugler
pulls out of his Throat, and chops in again--What think you of [i]
glud-fum-flam-hasta-minantes? [i] Some of the old [i] Latin [i] Poets
bragged that their Vers_es were tougher than Bras_s, and harder than
Marble; what would they have done, if they had s_een thes_e? Verily they
would have had more reas_on to wis_h thems*elves an hundred Throats,
than they then had, to pronounce them.

There are s_ome, that drive a Trade in writ- ing in prais_e of other
Writers, (like Rooks,

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------

118 A SMALL POET. that bet on Games_ters Hands) not at all to ce-
lebrate the learned Author's Merits, as they would s_hew, but their own
Wits, of which he is but the Subjec_t. The Letchery of this Va- nity has
s_pawned more Writers than the [i] civil Law: [i] For thos_e, whos_e
Modes_ty mus_t notorious Va- pours imaginable. For if the Privilege of
Love be allowed--[i] Dicere quae_ puduit, s_cribere jus_s_it Amor,[i]
why s_hould it not be s_o in Self- Love too? For if it be Wis_dom to
conceal our Imperfec_tions, what is it to dis_cover our Vir- tues? It is
not like, that [i] Nature [i] gave Men great Parts upon s_uch Terms, as
the [i] Fairies [i] us_e to give Money, to pinch and leave them if they
s_peak of it. They s_ay--[i]Prais_e is but the Shadow of Virtue; [i] and
s*ure that Virtue is very foolish, that is afraid of its own Shadow.

When he writes [i] Anograms, [i] he us_es to lay the Outs_ides of his
Vers*es even (like a Brick-

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------

      A SMALL POET.       119

layer) by a Line of Rhime and Acros_tic, and fill th eMiddle with
Rubbis_h--In this he imi- tates [i] Ben Johnson, [i] but in nothing
els*e.

There was one, that lined a Hat-Cas_e with a Paper of [i] Benlows_e'[i]s
Poetry--[i] Prynne [i] bought it by Chance, and put a new Demi-Cas_tor
into it. The firs_t Time he wore it he felt only a s_inging in his Head,
which within two Days turned to a Vertigo--He was let Blood in the Ear
by one of the State-Phys_icians, and reco- vered; but before he went
abroad he writ a Poem of Rocks and Seas, in a Stile s*o proper and
natural, that it was hard to determine, which was ruggeder.

There is no Fear of Ac_tivity, nor Gambol of Wit, that ever was
performed by Man, from him that vaults on [i] Pegasus, [i] to him that
tumbles through the Hoop of an Anagram, but [i] Benlows [i] has got the
Mas*tery in it, whether it be high-rope Wit, or low-rope Wit. He

son means was .......

------------------------------------------------------------------------

120 A SMALL POET./ has all Sorts of [i] Echoes, Rebus's, Chronograms,/
&c.[i] bes_ides [i] Carwichets, Clenches, [i] and [i] Quibbles--[i]/ As
for [i] Altars [i] and [i] Pyramids [i] in Poetry, he has/ out-done all
Men that Way; for he has/ made a [i] Gridiron, [i] and a [i] Frying-Pan
[i] in Vers_e,/ that, bes_ide the Likenes_s in Shape, the very/ Tone and
Sound of the Words did perfec_tly/ repres_ent the Nois_e, that is made
by thos_e/ Utens_ils, s_uch as the old Poet called [i] s_artago lo-/
quendi. [i] When he was Captain, he made all/ the Furniture of his
Hors_e, from the Bit to/ the Crupper, in beaten Poetry, every Vers_e/
being fitted to the Proportion of the Thing,/ with a moral Allus_ion of
the Sens_e to the/ Thing; as the [i] Bridle of Moderation, the Saddle/
of Content, [i] and [i] the Crupper of Cons_tancy;[i] s_o that/ the
s_ame Thing was both Epigram and Emblem,/ even as Mule is both Hors_e
and As_s./ / / {New Paragraph} Some Critics are of Opinion, that Poets/
ought to apply themselves to the Imitation of/ [i] Nature, [i] and make
a Cons_cience of digres_s_ing/ from her; but he is none of thes*e. The
an-/ tient Magicians could charm down the Moon,/ and force Rivers back
to their Springs by the/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------------


A SMALL POET. 121/

Power of Poetry only; and the Moderns will/ undertake to turn the
Ins_ide of the Earh out-/ ward (like a Jugler's Pocket) and s_hake the/
[i] Chess[i] out of it, make [i] Nature [i] s_hew Tricks like/ an Ape,
and the Stars run on Errands; but/ s_till it is by dint of Poetry. And
if Poets can/ so s_uch noble Feats, they were unwis_e to des_-/ cend to
mean and vulgar: For where the rares_t/ and mos_t common Things are of a
Price (as/ they are all one to Poets) it argues Dis_ease in/ Judgement
not to chus_e the most curious. Hence/ s_ome infer, that the Account
they give of things/ des_erves no Regard, becaus_e they never receive/
any Thing, as they find it, into their Compo-/ s_itions, unles_s it
agree both with the Meas_ure/ of their own Fancis, and the Meas_ure of
their/ Lines, which can very s_eldom happen: And/ therefore when they
give a Character of any/ Thing or Pers_on, it does commonly bear no/
more Proportions to the Subject, than the Fis_hes/ and Ships in a Map do
to the Scale. But let/ s_uch know, that Poets, as well as Kings, ought/
rather to cons*ider what is fit for them to give,/ than others to
receive; that they are fain to/ have regard to the Exchange of Language,
and/ /

------------------------------------------------------------------------

122 A SMALL POET. / write high or low, according as that runs:/ For in
this Age, when the s_mallest Poet s_eldom/ goes below more then mos_t,
it were a Shame for/ a grater and more noble Poet not to out-throw/ that
cut a Bar. / / / ##There was a [i] Tobacco-Man, [i] that wrapped /
[i]Spanis_h [i] Tobacco in a Paper of Vers_es, which/ [i]Benlows[i] had
written agains_t the [i] Pope, [i] which/ by a natural Antipathy, that
his Wit has to / any Thing that's Catholic, s_poiled the Tobacco;/ for
it pres_ently turned Mundungus. This Au-/ thor will take an [i] English
[i] Word, and, like the/ [i] Frenchman, [i] that s_wallowed Water and
s_pit it/ out Wine, with a little Heaving and Straining/ would turn it
immediately into [i] Latin,[i] as [i] plun-/ derat ille Domos[i]--Mille
[i] Hocopokiana, [i] and a thou-/ s_and s_uch./ / ##There was a young
Practitioner in Poetry,/ that found there was no good to be done with-/
out a Mis_tres_s: For he, that writes of Love/ before he hath tried it,
doth but travel by the/ Map; and he, that makes Love without a/ Dame,
does like a Games_ter, that plays for/ / #[i]More the mos_t] There is an
appearance Defect or Error in thes_e/ Words; but I leave it to the
Reader to s_upply or correct./

------------------------------------------------------------------------


A SMALL POET. 123/

Nothing. He thought it convenient therefore,/ firs_t to furnis_h
hims_elf with a Name for his/ Mis_stress beforehand, that he might not
be to/ s_eek, when his Merit or good Fortune s_hould/ bes_tow her upon
him: for every Poet is his/ mis_tres_s_e's Godfather, and gives her a
new/ Name, like a Nun that takes Orders. He was/ very curious to s_it
himself with a hands_ome/ Word of a turnable Sound; but could light/
upon none, that s_ome Poet or other had not / made us_e of before. He
was therefore forced/ to fall to coining, and was s_everal Months be-/
fore he could light on one, that pleas_ed him/ perfectly. But after he
had overcome that Dif-/ ficulty, he found a greater remaining, to get a/
Lady to own him. He accos_ted s_ome of all/ Sorts, and gave them to
unders_tand, both in/ Pros_e and Vers_e, how incomparably happy it/ was
in his Power to make his Mis_tres_s, but/ could never convert any of
them. At length/ he was fain to make his Landres_s s_upply that/ Place
as Proxy, until his good Fortune, or/ s_omebody of better Quality would
be more / kind to him, which after a while he neither/ hoped nor cared
for; for how mean Toever her/ Condition was before, when he had once
pre-/ tended to her, s_he was s_ure to be a Nymph and/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

124 A SMALL POET./ a Goddes_s. For what greater Honour can a/ Woman be
capable of, than to be trans_lated/ into precious Stones and Stars? No
Herald in/ the World can go higher. Bes_ides se found no/ Man can us_e
that Freedom of Hyperbole in the/ Character of a Pers_on commonly known
(as/ great Ladies are) which we can in des_cribing/ one s_o obs_cure and
unknown, that nobody can/ dis_prove him. For he, that writes but one/
Sonnet upon any of the public Pers_ons, s_hall/ be s_ure to have his
Reader at ever third Word/ cry out--What an As_s is this to call [i]
Spanis_h/ paper and Cerus_e Lillies and Ros_es, [i] or [i] claps In-/
fluences--[i] To s_ay, [i] the Graces are her waiting Wo-/ men, [i] when
they are known to be no better/ than her Bawdes--that [i] Day breaks
from her/ Eyes, [i]when s_he looks as_quint--Or that [i] her/ Breath
perfumes the Arabian Winds, [i] when s_he/ puffs Tobacco?/ / ##It is no
mean Art to improve a Language,/ and find out Words, that are not only
removed/ from common us_e, but rich in Cons_onanats,/ the Nerves and
Sinews of Speech, to rais*e a/ / ---

------------------------------------------------------------------------



A SMALL POET. 125/


s_ft and feeble Language like ours to the Pitch/ of [i] High-Dutch,[i]
as he did, that writ/ / ## [i] Arts rattling Fores_kins s_hrilling
Bagpipes quell.[i]/ / #This is not the only the mos_t elegant, but mos_t
po-/ litic Way of Writing, that a Poet can us_e; for I/ know no Defence
like it to pres_erve a Poem from/ the Torture of thos_e that lis_p and
s_tammer./ He that wants Teeth may as well venture upon/ a Piece of
tough horny Brawn as s_uch a Line,/ for he will look like an As_s eating
This_tles./ / # He never begins a Work without an Invoca-/ tion of his
[i] Muse; [i] for it is not fit that s_he s_hould/ appear in public, to
s_hew her Skill before s_he/ is entreated, as Gentlewomen do not us_e to
/ s_ing, until they are applied to, and often des_ired./ / # I s_hall
not need to s_ay any this of the Ex-/ cellence of Poetry, s_ince it has
been already/ performed by many excellent Pers_ons, among/ whom s_ome
have lately undertaken to prove, that/ the civil Government cannot
pos_s_ibly s_ubs_is_t with-/ out it, which, for my Part, I believe to be
true/ / [i] S*ome have lately. [i]] This alludes to [i] Davenant--See
[i] G---

------------------------------------------------------------------------

126 A SMALL POET./ in a poetical Sens_e, and more probable to be/
received of it, than thos_e s_trange Feats of/ building Walls and making
Trees dance,/ which Antiquity as_cribes to Vers_e. And though/ [i]
Philos_ophers [i] are of a contrary Opinion, and will/ not allow Poets
fit to live in a Commonwealth,/ their Partiality is plainer than their
Reas_ons;/ for they have no other Way to pretend to this/ Prerogative
thems_elves, as they do, but by re-/ moving Poets, whom they know to
have a/ fairer Title; and this they do unjus_tly, that/ [i] Plato, [i]
who firs_t banis_hed Poets his Republic,/ forgot that the very
Commonwealth was poe-/ tical. I s_hall s_ay nothing to them, but only/
des_ire the World to cons_ider, how happily it is/ like to be governed
by thos_e, that are as s_o per-/ petual a civil War among thems_elves,
that if we/ s_hould s_ubmit ours_elves to their own Res_olution/ of this
Question, and be content to allow them/ only fit to rule if they could
but conclude it/ s_o themselves, they would never agree upon it--/ Mean
while there is no les_s Certainty and Agree-/ ment in Poetry than the
Mathematics; for they/ all s_ubmit the to the s_ame Rules without
Dis_pute or/ Controvers_y. But whos_oever s_hall pleas_e to look/ into
the Records of Antiquity s_hall find their/ Title s_o unques_tioned,
that the greatest Princess/ / / 4

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A SMALL POET. 127/ in the whole World have been glad to derive/ their
Pedigrees, and their Power too, from/ Poets. [i] Alexander [i] the great
had no wis_er a Way/ so s_ecure the Empire to hims_elf by [i] Right,
[i]/ which he had gotten by [i] Force, [i] then by de-/ claring hims_elf
the Son of [i] Jupiter; [i] and who/ was [i] Jupiter [i] but the Son of
a Poet? So [i] Caes*ar [i]/ and all [i] Rome [i] was transported with
Joy, when a/ Poet made [i] Jupiter [i] his Colleague in the Empire;/ and
when [i] Jupiter [i] governed, what did the/ Poets, that governed
Jupiter?/

------------------------------------------------------------------------
