

CENTER [134]/


/ #Double Rule/ / #Center A/ #Center MELANCHOLY MAN/ / #[double line
initial cap]Is one, that keeps the wors_t Company in the/ World, that
is, his own; and tho' he be al-/ ways falling out and quarrelling with
hims_elf,/ yet he has not power to endure any other Con-/ vers_ation.
His Head is haunted, like a Hous_e,/ with evil Spirits and Apparitions,
that terrify/ and fright him out of hims_elf, till he s_tands/ empty and
fors_aken. His Sleeps and his Wa-/ kings are s_o much the s_ame, that he
knows not/ how to dis_tinguis_h them, and many times/ when he dreams, he
believes he is broad awake/ and s_ees Vis_ions. The Fumes and Vapours/
that ris_e from his Spleen and Hypocondries/ have s_o s_mutched and
s_ullied his Brain (like a/ Room that s_moaks) that his Unders_tanding
is/ blear-ey'd, and has no right Perception of any/ Thing. His Soul
lives in his Body, like a/ Mole in the Earth, that labours in the Dark,/
and cas_ts up Doubts and Scruples of his own/

------------------------------------------------------------------------



CENTER A MELANCHOLY MEN. 135/


Imagination, to make that rugged and uneas_y,/ that was plain and open
before. His Brain is/ s_o cracked, that he fancies hims_elf to be
Glas_s,/ and is afraid that every Thing he comes near/ s_hould break him
in Pieces. Whats_oever makes/ an Impres_s_ion in his Imagination works
it s_elf/ in like a Screw, and the more he turns and/ winds it, the
deeper it s_ticks, till it is never to/ be got out again. The Temper of
his Brain/ being earthy, cold, and dry, is apt to breed/ Worms, that
s_ink s_o deep into it, no Medicine/ in Art or Nature is able to reach
them. He/ leads his Life, as one leads a Dog in a Slip/ that will not
follow, but is dragged along until/ he is almos_t hanged, as he has it
often under/ Cons_ideration to treat hims_elf in convenient/ Time and
Place, if he can but catch hims_elf/ alone. After a long and mortal Feud
between/ his inward and his outward Man, they at/ length agree to meet
without Seconds, and decide the/ Quarrel, in which the one drops, and
the/ other s_inks out fo the Way, and makes his/ Es_cape into s_ome
foreign World, from whence/ is it never after heard of. He convers_es
with/ nothing s_o much as his own Imagination,/ which being apt to
mis_repres*ent Things to him,/ #Center K 4/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

136 #Center A MELANCHOLY MAN./ makes him believe, that it is s_omething
els_e/ than it is, and that he holds Intelligence with/ Spirits, that
reveal whats_oever he fancies to/ him, as the antient rude People, that
firs_t heard/ their own Voices repeated by Echoes in the/ Woods,
concluded it mus_t proceed from s_ome/ invisible Inhabitants of thos_e
s_olitary Places,/ which they after believed to be Gods, and/ called
them [i] Sylvans, Fauns, [i] and [i] Dryads. [i] He/ makes the Infirmity
of his Temper pas_s for/ Revelations, as [i] Mahomet [i] did by his
falling/ Sicknes_s, and ins_pires hims_elf with the Wind/ of his own
Hypocondries. He laments, like/ [i] Heraclitus [i] the Maudlin
Philos_opher, at other/ Men's Mirth, and take Pleas_ures in nothing/ but
his own un-s_ober Sadnes_s. His Mind is/ full of Thoughts, but they are
all empty, like/ a Nes_t of Boxes. He s_leeps little, but dreams/ much,
and s_oundes_t when he is waking. He/ s_ees Vis_ions further off than a
s_econd-s_ighted/ Man in [i] Scotland, [i] and dreams upon a hard/ Point
with admirable Judgement. He is jus_t/ s_o much wors_e than a Madman, as
he is below/ him in Degree of Frenzy; for among Madmen/ the mos_t mad
govern all the res*t, and receive/ a natural Obedience from their
Inferiors./

------------------------------------------------------------------------
