

CENTER [137]/


/ #Double Rule/ / #Center AN/ #Center HARANGUER/ / / [I]s one, that is
s_o delighted with the s_weet/ [I] Sound of his own Tongue, that [i]
William/ Prynne [i] will s_ooner lend an Ear, than he, to any/ Thing
els_e. His Meas_ure of Talk is till his/ Wind is s_pent; and then he is
not s_ilenced,/ but becalmed. His Ears have catched the/ Itch of his
Tonuge, and though he s_cratch/ them, like a Deas_t with his Hoof, he
finds a/ Pleas_ure in it. A [i] s_ilenced Minis_ter, [i] has more/ Mercy
on the Government in a s_ecure Conven-/ ticle, than he has on the
Company, that he is/ in. He s_hakes a Man by the Ear, as a Dog/ does a
Pig, and never loos_es his Hold, till he/ has tired hims_elf, as well as
his Patient. He/ does not talk to a Man, but attack him, and/
whoms_oever he can get into his Hands he lays/ violent Language on. If
he can he will run/ a Man up agains_t a Wall, and hold him at a/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

138 #Center AN HARANGUER./ Bay by the Buttons, which he handles as bad/
as he does his Pers_on, or the Bus_ines_s he treats/ upon. When he finds
him begin to s_ink, he/ holds him by the Cloaths, and feels him as a/
Butcher does a Calf, before he kills him. He/ is a walking Pillory, and
crucifies more Ears/ than a dozen s_tanding ones. He will hold any/
Argument rather than his Tongue, and main-/ tain both s_ides at his own
Charge; for he will/ tell you what you will s_ay, though, perhaps,/ he
does not intende to give you leave. He/ lugs Men by the Ears, as they
correct Children/ in [i] Scotland, [i] and will make them tingle, while/
he talks with them, as s_ome s_ay they will do,/ whena Man is talked of
in his Abs_ence. When/ he talks to a Man, he comes up clos_e to him,/
and like an old Solider lets fly in his Face, or/ claps the Bore of his
Pis_tol to his Ear, and/ whispers aloud, that he may be s_ure not to/
mis_s his Mark. His tongue is always in Mo-/ tion, tho very s_eldom to
the Purpos_e, like a/ Barber's Scis_s_ers, which are always s_nipping,/
as well when they do not cut, as when they/ do. His Tongue is like a
Bagpipe Drone, that/ has no Stop, but makes a continual ugly Nois_e,/
hims*elf. He never leaves a Man until he has/ / 3

------------------------------------------------------------------------



CENTER AN HARANGUER. #JUSTIFYLEFT 139/


run him down, and then he winds a Death/ over him. A Sow-Gelder's Horn
is not s_o/ terrible to Dogs and Cats, as he is to all that/ know him.
His Way of Argument is to talk/ all, and hear to Contradiction. Firs_t
he gives/ his Antagonis_t the Length of the Wind, and/ then, let him
make his Approaches inf he can,/ he is s_ure to be beforehand with him.
Of all/ dis_s_olute Dis_eas_es the Running of the Tongue is/ the wors_t,
and the hardes_t to be cured. If he/ happen at any time to be at a
Stand, and any/ Man els_e begins to s_peak, he pres_ently drowns/ him
with his Nois_e, as a Water-Dog makes a/ Duck dive: for when you think
he has done/ he falls one, and lets fly again, like a Gun, that/ will
dis_charge nine Times with one Loading./ He is a Rattles_nake, that with
his Nois_e gives/ Men warning to avoid him, otherwis_e he will/ make
them wis_h they had. He is, like a Bell,/ good for nothing but to make a
Nois_e. He is/ like common Fame, that s_peaks mos_t and/ knows leas_t,
Lord [i] Brooks, [i] or a Wildgoos_e al-/ ways cackling when he is upon
the Wing./ His Tongue is like any Kind of Carriage, the/ les_s Weight it
bears, the fas_ter and eas_ier it/ goes. He is s_o full of Words, that
they run/ over, and are thrown away to no Purpos*e; and/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

140 #Center AN HARANGUER./ s_o empty of Things, or Sens_e, that his
Dry-/ nes_s has made his Leaks s_o wide, whats_oever is/ put in hi runs
out immediately. He is s_o/ long in delivering hims_elf, that thos_e
that hear/ him des_ire to be delivered too, or dis_patched/ out of their
Pain. He makes his Dis_course the/ longer with often repeating [i] to be
s_hort, [i] and talks/ much of [i] in fine, [i] but never means to come
near/ it./

------------------------------------------------------------------------
