

CENTER [ 141 ]/


/ / #Double rule/ / #Center A/ #Center POPISH PRIEST/ [I]s one that
takes the s_ame Cours_e, that the/ IDevil (i) did in Paradis_e, he
begins with the/ Woman. He Des_pis_es all other (i)Fanatics (i) as Up-/
s_tarts, and values hims_elf upon his Antiquity./ He is a Man-Midwife to
the Soul, and is all/ his Life-time in this World deluding it to the/
next. (i) Christ (i) made St. (i) Peter (i) a Fis_her of Men ;/ but he
believe it better to be a Fis_her of Wo-/ men, and s_o becomes a Woman's
Apos_tle./ His Profes_s_ion is to dis_guise hims_elf, which he/ does in
Sheeps-Cloathing, that is, a Lay Habit ;/ but whether, as a Wolf, a
Thief or a Shep-/ herd, is a great Question ; only this is certain,/
that he had rather hanv one Sheep out of ano-/ ther Man's Fold, that two
out of his own./ He gathers his Church as (i) Fantaics do, yet des_-/
pis_es them for it, and keeps his Flock always in/ Hurdles, to be
removed at his Pleas_ure ; and/ though their Souls be rotten or s*cabby
with/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

142 #Center A POPISH PRIEST./ Hypocris_y, the Fleece is s_ure to be
s_ound and/ orthodox. He tars their Cons_ciences with/ Confes_s_ion and
Penance, but always keeps the/ Wool, that he pulls from the Sore, to
hims_elf./ He never makes a Pos_clyte, but he (i) converts (i)/ him to
his very Shirt, and (i) turns (i) his Pockets/ into the Bargain ; for he
does nothing unles_s/ his Purs_e prove a good (i) Catholic. (i) He never
gets/ within a Family, but he gets on the Top of it,/ and governs all
down to the Bottom of the/ Cellar--He will not tolerate the Scullion
un-/ les_s he be othrodox, nor allow of the turning/ of the Spit, but
(i) in ordine ad Spiritualia. (i) His/ (i) Dominion is not founded in
Grace, (i) but Sin ; for he/ keeps his Subjects in perfect Awe by being/
acquainted with their mos_t s_acred Iniquities,/ as (i) Juvenal (i)
s_aid of the (i) Greeks. (i)/ / #indent (i) Scire volunt s_ecreta domus,
atque in de timeri. (i)/ / By this means he holds Intelligence with
their/ own Cons_ciences agains_t thems_elves, and keeps/ their very
Thoughts in Slavery ; for Men com-/ monly fear thos_e that know any Evil
of them,/ and out of Shame give Way to them. He is/ very cautious in
venturing to attack any Man/ by Way of Convers_ion, whos_e Weaknes_s he
is/ not very well acquainted with ; and like the/

------------------------------------------------------------------------



CENTER A POPISH PRIEST. #LEFT 143/


Fox, weighs his Goos_e, before he will venture/ to carry him over a
River. He fights with the/ (i) Devil (i) at his own Weapons, and
s_trives to get/ ground on him with Frauds and Lies--Thes_e/ he convers
to pious Us_es. He makes his/ Prayers (the proper Bus_ines_s of the
Mind) a/ Kind of Manufacture, and vents them by Tale,/ rather than
Weight ; and, while he is bus_ied/ in numbering them, forgets their
Sens_e and/ Meaning. He s_ets them up as Men do their/ Games at (i)
Picquet, (i) for fear he s_hould be mis_-/ reckoned; but never minds
whether he plays/ fair or not. He s_ells Indulgences, like (i) Lockier's
(i)/ Pills, with Directions how they are to be taken./ He is but a
Copyholder of the (i) Catholic (i) Church,/ that claims by Cus_tom. He
believes that (i) Pope's (i)/ Chain is fas_tened to the Gates of Heaven,
like/ King (i) Harry's (i) in the Privy-Gallery./

------------------------------------------------------------------------
