

CENTER [144]/


/ #double rule/ / #center A/ #center TRAVELLER/ / [I]s a Native of all
Countries, and an Alien at/ [I]Home. He flies from the Place where he/
was hatched, like a Wildgoos_e, and prefers all/ others before it. He
has no Quarrel to it, but/ becaus_e he was born in it, and like a
Bas_tard,/ he is as_hamed of his Mother, becaus_e s_he is of/ him. He is
a Merchant, that makes Voyages/ into foreign Nations, to drive a Trade
in Wis_-/ dom and Politics, and is is not for his Credit/ to have it
thoughts, he has made an ill Return,/ which mus_t be, if he s_hould
allow of any of/ the Growth of his own Country. This makes/ him quick
and blow up hims_elf with Admira-/ tion of foreign Parts, and a generous
Con-/ tempt of Home, that all Men may admire, at/ leas_t, the means he
has had of Improvement,/ and deplore their own Defects_. His Obs_erva-/
tions are like a Sieve, that lets the finer Flour/ pas_s, and retains
only the Bran of Things;/

------------------------------------------------------------------------



CENTER A TRAVELLER. #JUSTIFY LEFT 145/


for his whole Return of Wis_dom proves to be/ but Affectation, a
peris_hable Commodity, which/ he will never be able to put off. He
velieve/ all Men's Wits are at a s_tand, that s_tay at/ Home, and only
thos_e advanced, that travel ;/ as if Change of Pas_ture did make great
Politi-/ cians, as well as fat Calves. He pities the little/ knowledge
of Truth which thos_e have, that/ have not s_een the World abroad,
forgetting,/ that at the s_ame time he tells us, how little/ Credit is
to be given to his own Relations and/ thos_e of others, that s_peak and
write of their/ Travels. He has worn his own Language to/ Rags, and
patched it up with Scraps and Ends/ of foreign--This s_erves him for
Wit, and they ap-/ plaud one another accordingly. He believes/ this
Raggednes_s of his Dis_cours_e a great Demon-/ s_tration of the
Improvement of his Knowledge ;/ as (i) Inns-of-Court (i) Men intimate
their Proficiency/ in the Law by the Tatters of their Gowns-/ All the
Wit he brought Home with him is like/ foreign Coin, of a bas_er Alloy
than our own,/ and s_o will not pas_s here without great Los_s./ All
noble Creatures, that are famous in any/ Vol. II #Center L/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

146 A TRAVELLER./ one Country, degenerate by being trans_planted;/ and
thos_e of mean Value only improve--If it/ hold with Men, he falls among
the Number/ of the latter, and his Improvements are little/ to his
Credit. All he can s_ay for hims_elf is,/ his Mind was s_ick of a
Cons_umption, and/ change of Air has cured him : For all his other/
Improvements have only been to eat in . . . ./ and talk with thos_e he
did not unders_tand; to/ hold Intelligence with all Gazettes, and from/
the Sight of States_men in the Street unriddle/ the Intrigues of all
their Councils, to make a/ wondrous Progres_s into Knowledge by riding/
with a Mes_s_enger, and advance In Politics by/ mounting of a Mule, run
through all Sorts of/ Learning in a Waggon, and found all Depths/ of
Arts in Felucca, ride pos_t into the Secrets/ of all States, and grow
acquainted with their/ clos_e Des_igns in Inns and Hos_tleries; for
cer-/ tainly there is great Virtue in Highways and/ Hedges to make an
able Man, and a good/ Pros_pect cannot but let him s_ee far into
Things./

------------------------------------------------------------------------
