

CENTER [147]/


/ #Double Rule/ / #Center A #Center CATHOLIC/ / / [S]AYS his Prayers
often, but never prays, and/ [S] wors_hips the Cros_s more than (i)
Christ (i). He/ prefers his Church merely for the Antiquity of/ it, and
cares not how s_ound or rotten it be,/ s_o it be but old. He takes a
liking to it as/ s_ome do to old Chees_e, only for the blue Rot-/
tennes_s of it. If he had lived in the primitive/ Times he had never
been a (i) Christian (i); for the/ Antiquity of the (i) Pagan (i) and
(i) Jewish (i) Religion/ would have had the s_ame Power over him/
against the (i) Christian, (i) as the old (i) Roman (i) has/ agains_t
the modern Reformation. The weaker/ Ves_s_el he is, the better and more
zealous Member/ he always proves of his Church; for Religion,/ like
Wine, is not s_o apt to leak in a leathern/ Boraccio as a great Cas_k,
and is better pre-/ s_erved in a s_mall Bottle s_topped with a light/
Cork, than a ves_s_el of greater Capacity, where/ the Spirits being more
and s*tronger are the/ #Center L2/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

148 #Center A CATHOLIC./ more apt to fret. He allows of all holy
Cheats,/ and in content to be deluded in a true, ortho-/ dox, and
infallible Way. He believes the (i) Pope (i)/ to be infallible, becaus_e
he has deceived all the/ World, but was never deceived hims_elf, which/
was grown s_o notorious, that nothing les_s than/ an Article of Faith in
the Church would make/ a Plas_ter big enough for the Sore. His Faith/ is
too big for his Charity, and too unwieldy/ to work Miracles ; but is
able to believe more/ than all the Sainst in Heave ever made. He/
worships Sainst in Effigie, as (i) Dutchmen (i) hand/ abs_ent
Malefactors ; and has s_o weak a Me-/ mory, that he is apt to forget his
Patrons,/ unles_s their Pictures prevent him. He loves/ so s_ee what he
prays to, that he may not mis-/ take one Saint for another ; and his
Beads and/ Crucifix are the Tools of his Devotion, with-/ out which it
can do nothing. Nothing s_taggers/ his Faith of the (i) Pope's (i)
Infallibility s_o much,/ as that he did not make away the Scriptures,/
when they were in his Power, rather than/ thos_e that believed in them,
which he knows/ not how to unders_tand to be no Error. The/ les_s he
unders_tands of his Religion, the more/ violent he is in it, which,
being the perpetual/ Condition of all thos_e are deluded, is a/

------------------------------------------------------------------------



CENTER A CATHOLIC. #JUSTIFYLEFT 149/


great Argument that he is miſtaken. His Re-/ ligion is of no Force
without Ceremonies, like/ a Loads_tone that draws a greater Weight/
through a Piece of Iron, than when it is naked/ of it s_elf. His Prayers
are a kind of Crambe/ that uſed to kill Schoolmaſters ; and he values/
them by Number, not Weight./ / / / / / / / / / / / / / / #center L3/

------------------------------------------------------------------------
