

CENTER [ 150 ]/


/ #Double Rule/ / / #Center A/ #Center CURIOUS MAN/ / [V]ALUES things
not by their Us_e or/ [V]Worth, but Scarcity. He is very tender/ and
s_crupulous of his Humour, as [i] Fantatics [i]/ are of their
Cons_ciences, and both for the mos_t/ part in Trifles. He cares not how
unus_eful/ any Thing be, s_o it be but unus_ual and rare./ He collects
all the Curious_ities he can light upon/ in Art or Nature, not to inform
his own/ Judgement, but to catch the Admiration of o-/ thers, which he
believes he has a Right to, be-/ caus_e the Rarities are his own. That
which/ other Men neglect he believes they overs_ee,/ and s_tores up
Trifles as rare Dis_coveries, at leas_t/ of his own Wit and Sagacity. He
admires/ subtleties above all Things, becaus_e the more/ s_ubtle they
are, the nearer they are to nothing;/ and values no Art but that which
is s_pun s*o/

------------------------------------------------------------------------



CENTER A CURIOUS MAN. 151/


thin, that it is of no Us_e at all. He had rather/ have an iron Chain
hung about the Neck of a/ Flea, than an Alderman's of Gold, and [i] Ho-/
mer's [i] Iliads in a Nuts_hel than [i] Alexander's [i] Ca-/ binet. He
had rather have the twelve Apos_tles/ on a Cherry-Stone, than thos_e on
St. [i] Peter's [i]/ Portico, and would willingly s_ell [i] Christ [i]
again/ for the numerical Piece of Coin, that [i] Judas [i]/ took for
him. His perpetual Dotage upon/ Curious_ities at length renders him one
of them,/ and he s_hews hims_elf as none fo the meanes_t/ of his
Rarities. He s_o much affects Singula-/ rity, that rather than follow
the Fas_hion, that/ is us_ed by the res_t of the World, he will wear/
dis_s_enting Cloaths with odd fantas_tic Devices/ to dis_tinguish
hims_elf form others, like Marks/ s_et upon Cattle. He cares not what
Pains he/ throws away upon the meanes_t Trifle, s_o it be/ but s_trange,
while s_ome pity, and others laugh/ at his ill-employed Indus_try. He is
one of/ thos_e, that valued [i] Epictetus's [i] Lamp above the/
excellent Book he writ by it. If he be a Book-/ man he s_pends all his
Time and Study upon/ Things that are never to be known. The/ [i]
Philos_opher's Stone [i] and [i] univers_al Medicine cannot/ #center L
4/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

152 A CURIOUS MAN./ pos_s_ibly mis_s him, though he is s_ure to do
them./ He is wonderfully taken with abs_trus_e Know-/ ledge, and had
rather hand to Truth with a/ Pair of Tongs wrapt up in Mys_teries and
Hiero-/ glyphics, than touch it with his Hands, or s_ee/ it plainly
demons_trated to his Sens_es./

------------------------------------------------------------------------
