[_two rules_]/ #AN/ #Astrologer/ / / I²S one that expounds upon the
Planets, and/ teaches to conſtrue the _Accidents_ by the _due/ joining
of Stars in Conſtruction._ He talks with/ them by dumb Signs, and can
tell what they/ mean by their twinckling, and ſquinting upon/ one
another, as well as they themſelves. He/ is a Spy upon the Stars, and
can tell what they/ are doing, by the Company they keep, and the/ Houſes
they frequent. They have no Power to/ do any Thing alone, until ſo many
meet, as/ will make a _Quorum._He is Clerk of the Com-/ mittee to them,
and draws up all their Orders,/ that concern either public or private
Affairs./ He keeps all their Accompts for them, and/ ſums them up, not
by _Debtor,_ but by _Creditor_/ alone, a more compendious Way. They do/
ill to make them have ſo much Authority over/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

the Earth, which, perhaps, has as much as/ any one of them but the Sun,
and as much/ Right to ſit and vote in their Councils, as any/ other :
But becauſe there are but ſeven Electors/ of the _German_ Empire, they
will allow of no/ more to diſpoſe of all other ; and moſt fooliſhly/ and
unnaturally depoſe their own Parent of its/ Inheritance; rather than
acknowledge a Defect/ in their own Rules. Theſe Rules are all they/ have
to ſhew for their Title ; and yet not one/ of them can tell whether
thoſe they had them/ from came honeſtly by them. _Virgil's_ Deſ-/
cription of _Fame,_ that reaches from Earth/ to the Stars, _tam ficti
pravique tenax,_ to carry/ Lies and Knavery, will ſerve Aſtrologers
with-/ out any ſenſible Variation. He is a Fortune-/ Seller, a Retailer
of Deſtiny, and petty Chap-/ man to the Planets. He caſts Nativities as/
Gameſters do falſe Dice, and by ſlurring and/ palming _ſextile,
quartile,_ and _trine,_ like _ſize,_/ _quater, trois,_ can throw what
chance he/ pleaſes. He ſets a Figure, as Cheats do a Main/ at Hazard ;
and Gulls throw away their Money/ at it. He festches the Grounds of his
Art ſo/ far off, as well from Reaſon, as the Stars, that,/ like a
Traveller, he is allowed to lye by Au-/

------------------------------------------------------------------------

thority. And as Beggars, that have no Money/ themſelves, believe all
others have, and beg/ of thoſe, that have as little as themſelves : So/
the ignorant Rabble believe in him, though/ he has no more Reaſon for
what he profeſſes,/ than they./

------------------------------------------------------------------------
